---
nav_exclude: true
id: 0f9967bc-d657-496f-9b4b-d1c7ebfd496c
title: Recruit
desc: ''
updated: 1599936705684
created: 1599936705684
data: {}
fname: dendron.recruit
stub: false
children: []
hpath: dendron.recruit
---
# Recruitment Pitch

[Dendron](https://dendron.so) is a note taking tool build around flexible hierarchies and bi-directional linking. It is meant to be the fastest way for people to create, find, and collaborate on the information they care about.

All note taking tools make it easy for you to get information in. They all struggle to help you find that information once you've accumulated a good number of notes. Dendron is optimized to help you find your notes no matter how many notes you have (Kevin, the founder, uses Dendron to manage +20K notes, all of which he can access in seconds)

Dendron is open source and local-first, meaning that anyone can build their own version of Dendron and that your data always stays with you. We build Dendron this way because we believe that access to one's knowledge is intimately personal and that you, as the user, should always have **full control of your knowledge**.

> "We are overwhelmed with information and we don't have the tools to properly index and filter through it. [The development of these tools, which] will give society access to and command over the inherited knowledge of the ages [should] be the first objective of our scientist" 
>
> - [Vannevar Bush](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vannevar_Bush), 1945

Dendron's goal is to give society **access to and command over the inherited knowledge of the ages.** We launched in preview in the summer of 2020 and have had awesome traction with early adopters. We currently have over a thousand downloads and a budding community of Dendronites from around the world. 

To keep up with the growth of Dendronites while continuing to work towards our roadmap, we need help. We are looking for developers to help take Dendron to the next level.

Dendron is built in typescript on top of VSCode. Knowledge of either is not required (though definitely preferred). You would be working alongside [myself](https://www.kevinslin.com) as well as our [global community of Dendronites](https://discord.gg/6j85zNX) to build a better way for people to **create, find, and collaborate** on knowledge that matters to them. 
