---
id: F9LWJEjscrGkxnYi2JNby
title: Commands
desc: ''
updated: 1655169548669
created: 1633485423674
---

## Summary

This is the configuration namespace that holds all Dendron command related settings.

Below is an overview of what the command namespace looks like.

```yml
commands:
  lookup:
    note:
      selectionMode:
      confirmVaultOnCreate:
      leaveTrace:
      bubbleUpCreateNew:
  randomNote:
    include:
    exclude:
  insertNote:
    initialValue:
  insertNoteLink:
    aliasMode:
    enableMultiSelect:
  insertNoteIndex:
    enableMarker:
  copyNoteLink:
    nonNoteFile:
      anchorType:
```

## lookup
Namespace for [[Lookup|dendron.topic.lookup]] command related configurations

### note
Namespace for Note Lookup command related configurations

#### selectionMode
Sets the default selection modifier for Note Lookup.

- default: `extract`
- options: `extract`, `link`, `none`

#### confirmVaultOnCreate
Prompt for vault selection when creating new note.

- default: `true`

#### vaultSelectionModeOnCreate

Configuration of prompting logic on vault creation.

> This setting is active if [[confirmVaultOnCreate|dendron://dendron.dendron-site/dendron.ref.config.commands#confirmvaultoncreate]] is set to `true`.

- default: `smart`
- options: `smart`, `alwaysPrompt`

#### leaveTrace
Leaves a reference of the destination note in the source note while using selection `extract` mode. 

- default: false

#### bubbleUpCreateNew
Allows putting `Create New` at the top of the lookup results.

- default: true 

#### fuzzThreshold
`fuzzThreshold` Optionally set fuzziness threshold for note lookups. The larger the value the more fuzzy the lookup will be.

Valid range is from 0 (exact matches only) to 1 (maximum fuzziness).

- default: 0.2

## randomNote
Namespace for Random Note command related configurations.

### include
List of hierarchies to include when opening a random note.

### exclude
List of hierarchies to exclude when opening a random note.

### initialValue
Initial value that will be filled when prompted for note to insert.

## insertNoteLink
Namespace for Insert Note Link command related configurations.

### aliasMode
Sets the default link alias mode for Insert Note Link command.

- default: `none`
- options: `snippet`, `selection`, `title`, `prompt`, `none`

### enableMultiSelect
Enable selecting multiple notes when using Insert Note Link command.

- default: false

## insertNoteIndex
Namespace for Insert Note Index command related configurations.

### enableMarker
Insert note index between autogenerated markers.

## copyNoteLink
Namespace for [[dendron.ref.commands#copy-note-link]] related configuration.

### nonNoteFile
Copy Note Link settings that only relate to non-note files: files that are not
note files or files that are not in any vault.

#### anchorType
- default: `block` 
- options: `line`, `block`, `prompt`

In non-note files, Copy Note Link can use both block anchors and line numbers.

Line numbers link to a specific line number in the file, but they are less
reliable as your links will become stale as the file changes and lines move
around.

Block anchors are more reliable because they will always refer to the marked
line, but Dendron has to modify the file to insert a block anchor which looks
like `^this`. You are free to move the anchor anywhere in the file or to put
comment markers like `//` or `#` or anything else before them.

You can also set it to `prompt`. When set to prompt, Dendron will instead prompt
which type of anchor to use each time.
